---
title: Wazuh - Open Source XDR. Open Source SIEM
excerpt: Start protecting your system and Install Wazuh, the platform composed of a single universal agent and three central components.
date: 2025-10-01 01:37:00
tags: [wazuh,xdr,siem]
categories:
  - [Wazuh - Open Source XDR. Open Source SIEM]
index_img: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/1337rokudenashi/1337rokudenashi.github.io/main/yublueflower.jpg
banner_img: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/1337rokudenashi/1337rokudenashi.github.io/main/1337yublueflower.jpg
---

Start protecting your system and Install Wazuh, the platform composed of a single universal agent and three central components.

**Wazuh central components**
>The Wazuh indexer is a highly scalable, full-text search and analytics engine.
This central component indexes and stores alerts generated by the Wazuh server.

>The Wazuh server analyzes data received from the agents and processes it using threat intelligence.
A single server can analyze data from thousands of agents, and scale when set up as a cluster. It is also used to manage the agents, configuring them remotely when necessary.

>The Wazuh dashboard is the web user interface for data visualization, analysis, and management.
It includes dashboards for regulatory compliance, vulnerabilities, file integrity, configuration assessment, cloud infrastructure events, among others.

**Requirements (central components):**

* Ubuntu 16.04–24.04 (64-bit)
* x86\_64/ARM64
* CPU 4vCPU, RAM 8GB, Storage 50GB

**Install Wazuh central components:**

```bash
curl -sO https://packages.wazuh.com/4.13/wazuh-install.sh && sudo bash ./wazuh-install.sh -o -p 1337 -a
```

Flags explained:

* `-o` → replace existing config/data
* `-p 1337` → set Dashboard/API port
* `-a` → install & configure Server, Indexer, Dashboard

**Disable auto-updates:**

```bash
sudo sed -i "s/^deb /#deb /" /etc/apt/sources.list.d/wazuh.list
sudo apt update
```

> Prevents unexpected upgrades.

**Access Dashboard:** `https://<SERVER_IP>:1337`

* Username: `admin`
* Password: shown during install

```bash
01/10/2025 13:37:00 INFO: You can access the web interface https://<wazuh-dashboard-ip>:1337
    User: admin
    Password: S0LH************************wPxX
01/10/2025 13:37:00 INFO: Installation finished.

https://13.37.0.1:1337/app/login?nextUrl=%2Fapp%2Fwz-home
```

> SSL warnings are normal in lab/internal setups.

**Retrieve API/Indexer credentials:**

```bash
sudo tar -O -xvf wazuh-install-files.tar wazuh-install-files/wazuh-passwords.txt
```

> Provides usernames and passwords for Wazuh API, Indexer, and Dashboard.

If you want to uninstall the Wazuh central components, run the Wazuh installation assistant using the option `sudo bash ./wazuh-install.sh -u
` or `curl -sO https://packages.wazuh.com/4.13/wazuh-install.sh && sudo bash ./wazuh-install.sh -u`.

**Single universal agent**
>Wazuh agents are installed on endpoints such as laptops, desktops, servers, cloud instances, or virtual machines. They provide threat prevention, detection, and response capabilities.

**Requirements (agent):**

* Ubuntu/Debian Linux (64-bit)
* Root privileges
* Network connectivity to Wazuh server

**Install Wazuh agent:**

```bash
wget https://packages.wazuh.com/4.x/apt/pool/main/w/wazuh-agent/wazuh-agent_4.13.1-1_amd64.deb && sudo WAZUH_MANAGER='13.37.0.1' WAZUH_AGENT_NAME='1337rokudenashi' dpkg -i ./wazuh-agent_4.13.1-1_amd64.deb
```

Flags explained:

* `WAZUH_MANAGER='13.37.0.1'` → Wazuh server address
* `WAZUH_AGENT_NAME='1337rokudenashi'` → Unique agent ID

**Enable and start the agent:**

```bash
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable wazuh-agent
sudo systemctl start wazuh-agent
```

With the agent active, your infrastructure stays connected, reporting logs, threats, and compliance data without missing a beat.
